Even if you're working in JavaScript, even
if you're working with all of the tools of
modern web development, you should always
be starting with semantic meaningful HTML.
It will overcome a lot of the problems
that you encounter later on.
We have all kinds of people these days
talking about how they're using ARIA to
compensate for
things that are built into native HTML.
So always start with good markup.
But what can we do before we
even start with good markup?
We have to start with good content, and so
this is what we're going
to start with here.
We're going to start in this
very first code pen right here.
So if you click on the link for
the beginning code pen,
you'll see that we have some pretty
basic looking kind of stuff here.
And what I've done over here on the side
is I've given you sort of a mad
lib as we used to say in the old days.
So hi my name is, fill it in with your
name, and then some kind of verb.
I do something, I teach, I develop, I
create, I design, whatever verb you want,
those are suggestions,
fill in something else if you like.
And then fill in the other thing
that you happen to do, just so
you know what ultimately
this is going to look like.
We're building this little piece
of text right here on the screen.
So you don't want this to go and
be a great big huge long thing.
How can you condense
what you do into four,
five words, maybe six words tops, okay?
What is the focus of what
it is that you're doing?
And then you can give yourself a title.
You're an educator or
a student, a developer,
a designer who specializes in whatever
it is that you specialize in.
And then currently what are you doing?
And so that's the formula that I
want you to go ahead and fill in.
Go, don't worry about the markup yet.
Hopefully that went well for you.
You were able to fill
in that information and
you have at least some
starting text to go from.
By the way,
that code pen that I've given you,
you'll see in the instructions I give you
a lot of beginning and ending code pens.
From that very first codepen, if you're
following along the whole way through this
text example, you don't need to keep
checking in with the additional codepens.
Those are mostly there for people who
might wanna jump in along the way or
skip over parts of this process.
So you can just continue to work in
the same codepen as you move on to
the next particular exercise.
So hopefully you have about this much
text, in other words, not a whole lot.
Hopefully it reflects something that is
very personal and accurate about you.
So once you have that
great content in place,
the next thing to do is to start
thinking about your markup.
How are we going to mark this up?
And I've given you, this is the end
result that we're going for here,
so we have tiny text on the top and
we have bigger text underneath and
then we have some more little text.
But remember, HTML stands for what,
the hypertext markup language, right?
Nowhere in that does that say design,
nowhere in that does that say colors or
size or boldness or anything else.
HTML is all about communicating
the message behind this information.
So I'm gonna give you again five
minutes to take your first pass at how
to mark this up.
It's trickier than you think and
that's your hint.
[LAUGH] And so
what I want you to think about here is,
what is the most important thing, okay?
I'll give another hint.
The h1 is not gonna be
located in this text.
We're going to put the h1
in the nav bar later on.
But for right now, so start with
something like h2 for a heading.
What is the most important part
of this information that's here?
So what gets the h2?
What is less important information?
That might get something like
a paragraph tag for example.
Is there any other information in here?
Maybe you wanna make a link, for
example, where would that go?
What resources are going to and
what does that markup look like?
Take a look at this, think really hard
about what the HTML might be to mark this
up, and I'm gonna go through
the answer with you in just a second.
Go ahead and give it a try.
How would you do with that?
Hopefully things went okay for you.
And so I'm gonna talk you
through the answer here.
And before I go into that, the thing to
remember about semantic HTML is that,
what is the meaning that
you are trying to convey,
that is behind everything
that you do in semantic HTML.
So in other words,
there is no one correct answer.
If you are trying to convey certain
types of information, that should drive
the choice of HTML elements that
you use to convey that information.
And your choices may be different than
mine because you're trying to convey
something else.
So let's go through what I have here for
an answer for this.
We won't worry about how this
looks because that doesn't matter,
we can make it look
however we want with CSS.
So here is my particular text here.
So first of all I've surrounded this
whole thing with a section tag,
because this is going to
be a section of my webpage.
This isn't really information that
could stand by itself who would make
an interesting webpage, although
maybe you could argue that it does.
If it did it could be an article,
but in this particular case,
I'm just considering this
part of a larger whole.
So I've used my section element here and
I've given it an ID, an intro,
because I may ultimately wind up making a
link to this particular part of the page.
So that's why I've used
an ID as opposed to a class.
If that doesn't make sense to you as
to how to make a link within the page,
we will of course talk about that
later when we get to the nav bar.
The next thing is hi my
name is Jen Kramer and
I suspect many of you probably
put a heading around this.
But I gave you a hint that the h1
is going to be in the nav bar.
So as you look at the final version of the
webpage, you know that I have my name up
here in the upper left hand corner,
kind of like a logo.
That is actually going
to take the h1 later.
And while you can have multiple h1's
on a web page, generally speaking,
the trend in front end web
development is to have only one.
So if you're taking that approach
of only one h1 on the page,
then you need to figure out
where the h2 is going to do.
If my name is the most important
thing in the h1 on top,
I've decided that I teach the web is the
most important part of this introduction,
because that tells you what you do.
Nobody cares who Jen Kramer is unless you
are gonna pair that with something that
gives you context because by the way
there's a Jen Kramer who ran for
political office in Chicago and
there's a Jen Kramer who's a magician in
Las Vegas and
there's many other Jen Kramers out there.
So this is the one who teaches the web,
that's why I've made that the h2.
As for hi my name is,
I mark that up as a paragraph and
I did put a span tag around the words Jen
Kramer because clearly we're gonna have to
sell that differently than everything
else that's there in that sentence.
Then I have a paragraph with the
information about what it is that I do for
work, and another paragraph talking
about what I'm doing currently which is
creating courses for Frontend Masters,
and I link to my information there on
the Frontend Masters website and
then I closed my section.
Why span and not h2 and h3?
Great question.
Why span and not h2 and h3,
because this is a full sentence.
Hi my name is Jen Kramer.
That is a whole sentence.
If we used an h2 for
whatever, Jen Kramer and
hi my name is is an h3,
then we are actually nesting two
headings inside of each other,
which is kind of weird.
The other part of that is it's one
complete sentence that is kind
of a paragraph.
We wouldn't want to break that
up into multiple headings.
So you're probably thinking about the HTML
is more of a sailing mechanism here,
as opposed to the meaning
that you're trying to convey.